example/README.md, before:

# RestQA Example 🚀

> A Drive thru example for all of us that like Fast Food 🍔🍟

Hello 👋,

Thank you for your interest on RestQA, let us explain to you what you can find on this folder.

### 📺 Good to know 

RestQA is based on Gherkin / Cucumber and using the .feature files. It will be bonus for you if you have exposed to the BDD/ATDD practice, it will help you to understand the full vision of RestQA.

## 🗽 Description

This example is a set of test automation scenarion that are testing the famous: https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com
In this exampple we are just sharing the test automation for the `todos` resources. (GET, DELETE, POST, PUT, PATCH)

## 📚 File Structure

This folder is containing a few files:

* `.restqa.yml`: The RestQA configuration file.
* `tests/integration/get-todos.feature`: Test scenario of the endpoint GET /todos
* `tests/integration/get-todos-id.feature`: Test scenario of the endpoint GET /todos/{id}
* `tests/integration/post-todos.feature`: Test scenario of the endpoint POST /todos
* `tests/integration/patch-todos.feature`: Test scenario of the endpoint PATCH /todos/{id}
* `tests/integration/put-todos.feature`: Test scenario of the endpoint PUT /todos/{id}
* `tests/integration/delete-todos.feature`: Test scenario of the endpoint DELETE /todos/{id}

## 🎯 Run the example

In order to run the test just use the command :

```
npm run example
```

Which is an alias of `restqa run example`

Then the result will be:

![cli](./assets/cli.png)


And you will be able to access to the report on your browser :

![report](./assets/screenshot-report.png)


That it! This is short but this is what RestQA is about, An easy Test Automation sideckick.

---

More information:

* Docs: https://docs.restqa.io
* Website: https://restqa.io
* Twitter: https://twitter.com/restqa
* Linkedin: https://linkedin.com/company/restqa
* Blog: https://medium.com/restqa

Commit message:

Feat: new command to share example: restqa example

example/README.md, after:

# RestQA Example 🚀

> A Drive thru example for all of us that like Fast Food 🍔🍟

Hello 👋,

Thank you for your interest on RestQA, let us explain to you what you can find on this folder.

### 📺 Good to know 

RestQA is based on Gherkin / Cucumber and using the .feature files. It will be bonus for you if you have exposed to the BDD/ATDD practice, it will help you to understand the full vision of RestQA.

## 🗽 Description

This example is a set of test automation scenarion that are testing the famous: https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com
In this exampple we are just sharing the test automation for the `todos` resources. (GET, DELETE, POST, PUT, PATCH)

## 📚 File Structure

This folder is containing a few files:

* `.restqa.yml`: The RestQA configuration file.
* `tests/integration/get-todos.feature`: Test scenario of the endpoint GET /todos
* `tests/integration/get-todos-id.feature`: Test scenario of the endpoint GET /todos/{id}
* `tests/integration/post-todos.feature`: Test scenario of the endpoint POST /todos
* `tests/integration/patch-todos.feature`: Test scenario of the endpoint PATCH /todos/{id}
* `tests/integration/put-todos.feature`: Test scenario of the endpoint PUT /todos/{id}
* `tests/integration/delete-todos.feature`: Test scenario of the endpoint DELETE /todos/{id}

## 🎯 Run the example

In order to run the test you have 2 options:

### 1. If you have restqa installed globally:

```
npm i -g @restqa/restqa
restqa example
```


### 2. If you cloned the repository :

```
npm run example
```

Which is an alias of `restqa run example`

Then the result will be:

![cli](./assets/cli.png)


And you will be able to access to the report on your browser :

![report](./assets/screenshot-report.png)


That it! This is short but this is what RestQA is about, An easy Test Automation sideckick.

---

More information:

* Docs: https://docs.restqa.io
* Website: https://restqa.io
* Twitter: https://twitter.com/restqa
* Linkedin: https://linkedin.com/company/restqa
* Blog: https://medium.com/restqa
